

## 2.2 Comparable Products. 

Inquiry into comparable systems has take place with features and functionality being reviewed.

##### FontSelf.  

###### Platform: Adobe Photoshop/Illustrator 

- Requires the creation of each individual character. 
- Aimed at high end professional letterers and graphic designers. 
- Colour fonts can be created. 
- Additional feature being designed called Fontself Catapult that will allow users to distribute fonts to market places such as MyFonts, Google Fonts, Font Squirrel, Typekit and Font Deck.
- Hand lettering can be scanned in and vectorised by Photoshop or Illustrator or created within Photoshop or Illustrator. 

###### Processes:

- Each prepared character is selected. 
- The plug-in is run. 
- Fontself creates each glyph and provides option to install font.

##### Prototypo.

###### Platform: Web

Prototypo is a web application that allow for the creation of fonts from a provided template. Currently in beta, prototypo provides to typeface variants, Sans-Serif and Serif. With a font variant selected the user can selected individual glyphs from the template font set and type a string of text to allow for feedback when editing the selected glyph. Parameters are provided to allow for the manipulation of attributes for the selected glyphs, these parameters are split into three groups structural, style, and serif. While each attribute is manipulated, real time feedback is provided through the user provided phrase.

The structural attributes that can be changed include: X Height, Capital height, Ascender height, Descender length, Crossbar height, Character width, Slant, and Overshoot. 

The style attributes that can be changed include: Thickness, Contrast, Extremity, Aperture, Top, Bottom, Curviness, and Optic Thickness. Serif manipulation includes: Width, Height, Curve, Arc, Terminal, Rotation."

##### MyScriptFont    

###### Platform: Web 

My Script font is an web application that provides an output font from an uploaded template image. The template requires the drawing of each individual letter form into the relative box of the template. Once complete the image is scanned by the use preferably in grey scale and uploaded to the My Script Font site with a jpg, png, pdf, jpeg, or tiff extension and of maximum 6 MB file size and maximum image dimension of 6500 x 6500 px. The font is then named by the user and output font format chosen. Once downloaded the created font can be installed on the local machine.


#### Summary.

Each of the three tools reviewed provide interesting application for typeface creation each with varying required skill and quality of output. The high skill requirement of fontself takes this out of the average users range and the low bar for entry my-script-font requires a time-consuming, un-intuitive method of input and unrepresentative output. Prototypo carries a low skill requirement and providing generally good output which however lacks required personality in its output.